# From 8.5 to 8.6

Make sure you view this update guide from the tag (version) of DoggoHub you would
like to install. In most cases this should be the highest numbered production
tag (without rc in it). You can select the tag in the version dropdown at the
top left corner of DoggoHub (below the menu bar).

If the highest number stable branch is unclear please check the
[DoggoHub Blog](https://about.doggohub.com/blog/archives.html) for installation
guide links by version.

### 1. Stop server

    sudo service doggohub stop

### 2. Backup

```bash
cd /home/git/doggohub
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake doggohub:backup:create RAILS_ENV=production
```

### 3. Get latest code

```bash
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all
sudo -u git -H git checkout -- db/schema.rb # local changes will be restored automatically
```

For DoggoHub Community Edition:

```bash
sudo -u git -H git checkout 8-6-stable
```

OR

For DoggoHub Enterprise Edition:

```bash
sudo -u git -H git checkout 8-6-stable-ee
```

### 4. Update doggohub-shell

```bash
cd /home/git/doggohub-shell
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all
sudo -u git -H git checkout v2.6.12
```

### 5. Update doggohub-workhorse

Install and compile doggohub-workhorse. This requires
[Go 1.5](https://golang.org/dl) which should already be on your system from
DoggoHub 8.1.

```bash
cd /home/git/doggohub-workhorse
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all
sudo -u git -H git checkout v0.7.1
sudo -u git -H make
```

### 6. Updates for PostgreSQL Users

Starting with 8.6 users using DoggoHub in combination with PostgreSQL are required
to have the `pg_trgm` extension enabled for all DoggoHub databases. If you're
using DoggoHub's Omnibus packages there's nothing you'll need to do manually as
this extension is enabled automatically. Users who install DoggoHub without using
Omnibus (e.g. by building from source) have to enable this extension manually.
To enable this extension run the following SQL command as a PostgreSQL super
user for _every_ DoggoHub database:

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS pg_trgm;
```

Certain operating systems might require the installation of extra packages for
this extension to be available. For example, users using Ubuntu will have to
install the `postgresql-contrib` package in order for this extension to be
available.

### 7. Install libs, migrations, etc.

```bash
cd /home/git/doggohub

# MySQL installations (note: the line below states '--without postgres')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without postgres development test --deployment

# PostgreSQL installations (note: the line below states '--without mysql')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without mysql development test --deployment

# Optional: clean up old gems
sudo -u git -H bundle clean

# Run database migrations
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production

# Clean up assets and cache
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake assets:clean assets:precompile cache:clear RAILS_ENV=production

```

### 8. Update configuration files

#### New configuration options for `doggohub.yml`

There are new configuration options available for [`doggohub.yml`](config/doggohub.yml.example). View them with the command below and apply them manually to your current `doggohub.yml`:

```sh
git diff origin/8-5-stable:config/doggohub.yml.example origin/8-6-stable:config/doggohub.yml.example
```

#### Nginx configuration

Ensure you're still up-to-date with the latest NGINX configuration changes:

```sh
# For HTTPS configurations
git diff origin/8-5-stable:lib/support/nginx/doggohub-ssl origin/8-6-stable:lib/support/nginx/doggohub-ssl

# For HTTP configurations
git diff origin/8-5-stable:lib/support/nginx/doggohub origin/8-6-stable:lib/support/nginx/doggohub
```

If you are using Apache instead of NGINX please see the updated [Apache templates].
Also note that because Apache does not support upstreams behind Unix sockets you
will need to let doggohub-workhorse listen on a TCP port. You can do this
via [/etc/default/doggohub].

[Apache templates]: https://doggohub.com/doggohub-org/doggohub-recipes/tree/master/web-server/apache
[/etc/default/doggohub]: https://doggohub.com/doggohub-org/doggohub-ce/blob/8-6-stable/lib/support/init.d/doggohub.default.example#L37

#### Init script

Ensure you're still up-to-date with the latest init script changes:

    sudo cp lib/support/init.d/doggohub /etc/init.d/doggohub
    
For Ubuntu 16.04.1 LTS:

    sudo systemctl daemon-reload

### 9. Start application

    sudo service doggohub start
    sudo service nginx restart

### 10. Check application status

Check if DoggoHub and its environment are configured correctly:

    sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake doggohub:env:info RAILS_ENV=production

To make sure you didn't miss anything run a more thorough check:

    sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake doggohub:check RAILS_ENV=production

If all items are green, then congratulations, the upgrade is complete!

## Things went south? Revert to previous version (8.5)

### 1. Revert the code to the previous version

Follow the [upgrade guide from 8.4 to 8.5](8.4-to-8.5.md), except for the
database migration (the backup is already migrated to the previous version).

### 2. Restore from the backup

```bash
cd /home/git/doggohub
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake doggohub:backup:restore RAILS_ENV=production
```

If you have more than one backup `*.tar` file(s) please add `BACKUP=timestamp_of_backup` to the command above.
